## What exactly is DGA
**Project description:** Domain generation algorithms(DGA) are used in various families of malware, which generate a large plenty of domain names that can be used as rendezvous points with their command and control (C2) servers. Security vendors usually used blacklists to identify malware, but DGA can constantly update domain to evade the blacklist detection. In order to solve this problem, instead of using low-efficient traditional methods, we will use machine learning algorithms to detect DGAs and compare the performance of these algorithms.

### 1. Data Sources Used

Benign Domains:

    Alexa Top 1 Million Sites: The Alexa Top Sites web service provides access to lists of websites ordered by Alexa Traffic Rank. (Size: 2,476,328)

Malicious DGA Domains:

    Bambenek Consulting provided malicious algorithmically-generated domains (License) (Size: 872,763)
    360 Lab DGA Domains: A collection of domains generated by DGA and it is maintained by 360--a Chinese security vendor. This dataset keeps updated every day. (Size: 1,169,720)


### 2. Algorithms and Code Used

**Random Forest(RF)**

Random forest is a bunch of decision trees. It can be seen as an ensemble model. A random forest model will take all predicting results from its inner decision trees as a vote.

**SVM(Support Vector Machine)**

SVM is able to classify input data by using the computed hyperplane which is trained from the training set. In other words, given labeled training data, the algorithm outputs an optimal hyperplane which categorizes new examples.

**CNN(Convolutional Neural Network)**

Typically, CNN is used on image/audio data. It plays a vital role in cognitive computing like image/voice recognition. But there are some approaches on text classification that use CNN as the classifier.

**LSTM(Long Short-Term Memory Neural Network)**

Long short-term memory (LSTM) units are units of a recurrent neural network (RNN). An RNN composed of LSTM units is often called an LSTM network.

### 4. References

[1] Antonakakis, M., Perdisci, R., Nadji, Y., Vasiloglou, N., Abu-Nimeh, S., Lee, W., & Dagon, D. (2012, August). From Throw-Away Traffic to Bots: Detecting the Rise of DGA-Based Malware. In USENIX security symposium (Vol. 12).

[2] AWS | Alexa Top Sites-Up-to-date lists of the top sites on the web. (n.d.). Retrieved from https:// aws.amazon.com/alexa-top-sites/

[3] Domain generation algorithm. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.wikiwand.com/en/Domai n_generation_algorithm

[4] G. (2018, November 05). Google-research/bert. Retrieved from https://github.com/google-res earch/bert

[5] H2O – Data Resource Portal. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.northeastern.edu/dataresource s/h2o

[6] H. A., & J. W. (2018, February 22). Using Deep Learning to Detect DGAs. Retrieved from https://www.endgame.com/blog/technical-blog/using-deep-learning-detect-dgas

[7] Koehrsen, W. (2018, June 02). Automated Feature Engineering in Python – Towards Data Science. Retrieved from https://towardsdatascience.com/automated-feature-engineering-in-python-99baf1 1cc219

[8] Plohmann, D., Yakdan, K., Klatt, M., Bader, J., & Gerhards-Padilla, E. (2016, August). A Comprehensive Measurement Study of Domain Generating Malware. In USENIX Security Symposium (pp. 263-278).

[9] Schiavoni, S., Maggi, F., Cavallaro, L., & Zanero, S. (2014, July). Phoenix: DGA-based botnet tracking and intelligence. In International Conference on Detection of Intrusions and Malware, and Vulnerability Assessment (pp. 192-211). Springer, Cham.

[10] Schüppen, S., Teubert, D., Herrmann, P., Meyer, U., & Sch, S. (2018, August). FANCI: feature-based automated NXDomain classification and intelligence. In Proceedings of the 27th USENIX Conference on Security Symposium (pp. 1165-1181). USENIX Association.

[11] Tran, D., Mac, H., Tong, V., Tran, H. A., & Nguyen, L. G. (2018). A LSTM based framework for handling multiclass imbalance in DGA botnet detection. Neurocomputing, 275, 2401-2413.

[12] Woodbridge, J., Anderson, H., Ahuja, A., & Grant, D. (2016). Predicting Domain Generation Algorithms with Long Short-Term Memory Networks.

[13] Yu, B., Pan, J., Hu, J., Nascimento, A., & De Cock, M. (2018). Character Level Based Detection of DGA Domain Names.
